Article 1: July 28, 2024 / 15:50 IST

Title: Stockology: Volatility would be high, and hammering will be stock-specific

While markets are entering the slightly expensive zone, volatility is set to increase more.

Review:

As expected, below 24290, buying emerged in most of the sectors and stocks. 
The Budget day panic hit or spike breached 24140 but immediately recovered, and for the next two days there was some element of exposure reduction happened. 
On Friday, markets once again surprised everyone by closing very near to an all-time high.

We had specifically mentioned that the time is not bad; while other parameters are turning slightly negative, the markets won't crash.
The midcap space is becoming attractive and as a growing economy, it looks like many midcaps will enter the large-cap category in the quarters to come.

The biggest shocker came for the realty sector with the removal of indexation. The sector will witness reduced demand, more people might prefer to pay fewer taxes, and show less value in the transactions. One will have to accept the simplified tax regime going forward.

Technical:

While markets are entering the slightly expensive zone, volatility is set to increase further. 
The first four days after decline and single candle of the last day of the week have not equalised the losses of the four days. 
Technical Analysis is simple, and by following basic rules anybody can use it to improve returns and reduce the stress of trading. 
As per technical, markets have not given a sell signal on short- or long-term charts, therefore, there is no need to anticipate and take actions. 
After the sell trigger, markets give relief rally to exit from the positions, which is an easy and simple approach. As long as the signal is 'stay invested', do not keep churning the portfolio.

The new high close after the spike has made a change in the short-term stop to 24050, and confirmation of exit from trading position is at 23970. 
The weekly stop is at 22370 and monthly stop is at 21240. On the upside, short-term targets are 24949, and 25241. Both the targets look easy to achieve. 
Given that the bullish euphoria is mounting day by day, the above target could easily be achieved.

TimeMap:

As mentioned last week, technical gave a small sign of correction – as an opportunity to invest, fundamental factors turned slightly negative. 
The time influence was positive last week, and is showing positive for the upcoming week as well. 
There are no major planetary aspects, except on Friday during Venus 90 Uranus, which is negative for the markets. 
In the current week, banks are coming as negative, and PSU continues to be in a positive phase. 
Big change is expected on the 30th, as after 10.45, the Sun is entering Nakshatra Ashlesha, which is very positive for the natural resource sector, and particularly for the steel industry. 
Government-owned mining and metal stocks might attract big-ticket buying from institutions and long-term investors as well.

Ashlesha gives the best consolidation and momentum breakout signals, and if on the right side, then BIG money can be made in a short span. 
Volatility would be high, and hammering will be stock-specific more than broad markets.

July 29, 2024: Monday: K.9: Bharni -10.55/Kruttika: Good to Book profits:

Higher opening and further rise in the first hour cannot be ruled out. As per the earlier observation – Tithi and Nakshatra combination is good for booking profits, and selective short selling as well. The Moon is in Kruttika after 10.55, which means that hourly divergence signals can be aggressively actively participated in to make lot of profitable trades. Realty and banks would be volatile, while textile and retail store stocks will attract investments. Keep an eye on metal and mining stocks, especially the government-owned businesses, as next 10 to 13 days are very positive for the sector. Sell Today Buy Tomorrow (STBT) is indicated.

July 30, 2024: Tuesday: K,10: Kruttika -10.23/ Rohini: Volatile after 5:

Lower opening of the markets is expected. Mean reversion indicators will give the best results today, and long short baskets will do very well. Bias is negative for the day. Participants would be nervous, and volumes would drop slightly in the pre-lunch session. In the second half, participation would increase. IT sector and communication would see buying, and midcap will witness profit booking and selling. Big probability markets will see a negative closing.

July 31, 2024: Wednesday: K.11: Rohini-10.13/Mrugga: Volatile bullish:

Market sentiment will generally be cautious and slightly nervous under the influence of Tithi 11. Post 10 am, a sudden flow of orders will bring volatility to the markets. Fast action or quick reaction will bring big rewards. One of the best days of the week to participate in a contrarian trade and increase the position once in favour. Aggression and speed is rewarded under the influence of Nakshatra Mrugga. Index movement will be very wide, and option trades can mint money. High Beta stocks and momentum indices will do well.

August 1, 2024: Thursday: K.12: Mrugga: Good day:

Proactive actions get rewarded. Don’t wait for confirmation to go with your study and stick to your strategies. Execute as per trade plans and do not deviate from your own ideas and plans. Prices will misguide and
create doubts in your mind. Even the most confident people will feel the pressure and tend to back off. We suggest you to be confident and trust your strategy. Systematic traders will make the best profits on August 1. Technology, communications, and logistic sector stocks will hog the limelight. Buy Today Sell Tomorrow (BTST) is indicated.

August 2, 2024: Friday: K.13: Aardra: Bad Day:

Higher opening and rise will be followed by unexpected selling in many counters. We suggest participants to remain alert, especially post-lunch, our observation indicates. Sudden sell off in select counters will disturb the sentiment. Tithi 13 is bad for sector leaders; expect oil and gas sector to get especially hammered. Uranus 90 Venus will be destructive for select companies, especially those that have gone way ahead of their valuations.


Article 2: August 04, 2024 / 08:04 IST

Title: Stockology: FMCG and IT sector could show a positive breakout

Major panic sell-off or crisis is not indicated in the coming week.

Review: 

After scaling above 25,000, markets gave a gap down big corrective move on Friday, July 26th. After four negative days, the market gave a single big candle which recovered losses of four days. The exact reverse happened in the current week. Four days of profit got wiped out on Friday by a single candle.

Market breadth was bad. Mid and Small cap segment witnessed significant amount of selling and profit booking from the big investors. Auto witnessed a sell off on Friday, and they were among the top losers. Metals and defence companies also witnessed sell off as valuation will catch-up when the euphoria is nearing the end. While banks which have not really participated in this bull market of last one year, except ICICI, SBI and Axis, remained stable and held the markets steady, interesting on Friday, large caps witnessed pressure. While breadth was negative, yet pressure was less in the mid and small cap space.

Technical:

As mentioned above, the previous two weeks were practically a reverse image of trading and at a new high. Every day markets will throw surprises as it is in uncharted territory. Anxiety plays a huge role. Everyone is in search of a top and prays and tries their best to be the seller at top, and after selling, wishes markets should go down. Since December, markets have been deceptive to the most seasoned players.

In the technical levels, nothing has changed. The new high closing on daily charts, has given an early warning trigger and that point is 24640. Close below this will indicate more than 65 percent chances of the short-term stop of 24,050 and confirmation of 23,970 will get triggered before September 10 - ideally within 13 days it should. The weekly stop is at 22,370 and monthly stop is at 21,240. On the upside short term targets are 24,949, and 25,241. Both the targets look easily to achieve. The bullish euphoria is mounting day by day, and above that the target could easily get achieved.

As a technical analyst, we believe the risk reward ratio is turning against the bullish camp, and it is surely first sign of withdrawal from the markets. Choose your trades very carefully.

TimeMap:

Sun is transiting in Nakshatra Ashlesha. As expected, movement in the natural resource and metals is picking up. Down or up is not important – volatility is the key.  IT sector, PSU and Capital Goods, are coming positive. Auto & FMCG are negative, Pharma & Bank and Nifty 50:50 is the broad TimeMap guideline for the upcoming week. While as previously mentioned, Time is still not showing big risk, it has started giving indications that slow wealth destruction has begun. Major panic sell-off or crisis is not indicated. Sun 60 Jupiter on 7th is a very positive aspect, and big movement in index stocks cannot be ruled out. The next day it is Venus 0 Mercury aspect. Thursday seems very important day of the week.

We are looking at Cement and Auto Ancillary selectively, and MNC-specialised capital goods sector companies to do extremely well.

From TimeMap perspective, many individual companies, especially the defence companies will see beginning of a major correction, while FMCG and IT might show a positive breakout.

August 05, 2024: Monday: S.1: Ashlesha: Good after 11:

Gap down and recovery could be the best scenario. Will the markets recovery to close in positive? Our system is showing negative closing today, and it would be good for the markets. Buy Today Sell Tomorrow (BTST) is recommended, especially in capital goods sector. In case Stop gets triggered without delay – exit, and in case position is in favour, continue to ride the rally till EOD, or even continue as BTST. Ashlesha gives the best results on consolidation breakout momentum indicators.

Watch for the bulk deals – or major takeover deals. Buyer would be successful and mint money.

August 06, 2024: Tuesday: S.2: Magha: Bullish Day:

We would see cement and construction companies attracting big ticket investments, especially the speciality engineering space.

Another sector which can see aggressive short covering and buying is Auto. Buy Today Sell Tomorrow (BTST) is indicated. Market sentiment would be very happy and many companies will declare good numbers.

August 07, 2024: Wednesday: S.3: Purva: Bullish day, Book Profits:

Market sentiment would be very cautious. Positive global cues will make naïve traders very aggressive, and we believe before lunch, the markets would show lot of positivity and post-lunch selling pressure from the institutions would force day traders to withdraw early. Tithi has given some of the widest surprise moves, and it is more often positive. Nakshatra of the Moon is best for booking profits and selling short, wherever confirmation of a divergence signal is available can be used as Sell Today Buy Tomorrow (STBT).

August 08, 2024: Thursday: S.4: Uttara: Good to Sell:

Tithi is deceptive. Manipulation signals or error trades will hurt many traders. Pattern failure is the best for participating today. It also means that one should show patience. Let the signal get triggered and allow it to fail on the 15-minutes chart and then participate. Big money can be made. Sell and Buy would give best results.

A company declaring bad result today, could get hammered, and fearlessly participate aggressively. Short sell position trade is recommended with 30-days view.

August 09, 2024: Friday: S.5: Hasta: Auspicious Day:

Tithi 5 gives wide movement and also gives powerful reversal. V shape movement in the markets are the trait of the Tithi, but Nakshatra of the MOON Hasta works on slow and steady win the race is the principal. Wait patiently and don’t rush into any trade. Best investment day of the week, and it can be a contrarian investment. If you want to build a position then you should hold it big time.
